# A Place Within

## 2026-01-01

### Coding!

Happy New Years! I'm going to kick it off with a two-week learning sprint, and I'm going to try to cover:

- markdown
- bash
- rust
- python
- html
- css
- javascript
- sql
- postgresql
- react
- nextjs
- fastapi
- vite
- redis, and
- caddy

... which is the pared-down list, lol.

After two weeks I'm going to reevaluate, all in on this for a bit though while I work my way through the first couple of paychecks since being super broke, see about sobriety for a bit, at least before the work party on the 18th, and I'm not going to hold myself to that religiously, I'm done with every attempt at sobriety, or endeavor, or new years resolution, always ending in shame. Enough. Two weeks of hardcore learning, and I'm going to do my best and be kind to myself.

First step was editing the window manager shortcut for minimizing and maximizing windows, I understand alt-f10 is a standard for some reason, but it has the tiling mapped to super- and then the keypad, so super-9 tiles to the top left, and now super-5 is maximize and super-0 is minimize. The nonsense I accepted as normal when I was drunk and dissociated needs to end. I'm smart and capable and I can **do** this.

VS Code supports markdown out the box, and I downloaded the cheatsheet for the thousandth time, made the blog folder, next let me just check my git commands, set that up, then dive into everything I can make a variable in.

My head decided to spin for a while. I moved a bit, got some food in and got my .bash_profile a bit more organized.

And actually connect my laptop with [my GitHub account with my new name!](https://github.com/integrityschipper) Very exciting.

### First Little Win

I remember how to make ssh work! I haven't totally lost it! There are surely going to be some rough patches which I doubt my ability to keep going, which is why it's so important for me to express all these little wins. Getting something to work, remembering a keyboard shortcut, picking a font that really works, all of it's got to get celebrated.

> Fall down 7, stand up 8 - Nana korobi ya oki (七転び八起き)

Let's try figuring out how to define a variable in every language we can from that list.

### Bash!

First for script execution, `alias bashx="chmod u+rx` so I don't have to remember that every time. And the first thing [the shell scripting guide](https://shellscript.sh) says that it's easy to make a poorly performing script, so keep that in mind just in case for whatever reason we decide to do anything laborious with it.

```
#!/bin/sh
MY_MESASGE='Hello world!'
echo $MY_MESASGE
```
There we go, that's one!

### Rust

But coffee first, and some more movement.

### Whoop.

Okay, well that turned into a whole thing, and then I ended up relapsing. On day 2. On January 1st.

But we did discover that even in the extreme cold here, I can run for at least five minutes, so I'm going to take advantage of that and just make a habit of going for short runs. A bunch of them. It's just the long run and freezing to death that I want to avoid.

And C goes back on the list. Not some of the other ones I was considering, but I'll take this as penance and a good learning opportunity, plus I read that it's harder to learn rust and then C rather than C and then rust. And I already wrote some C before. Got this.

### C

Omg w3schools yaaas!

Oh, something that shows a little more from a command line perspective though maybe ... OOP okay, C Programming, A Modern Approach is free.

So this is fun, I'm just also looking forward to telling someone medical that I think I broke my rib. I'm just sayin', here.

### Goodnight

Okay y'all. I love you. To the future. That line was K-dawg's. To the future. ~'teg